h1. YAKINDU Statechart Tools Installation Guide

h1. YAKINDU Statechart Tools User Guide

h2. What are YAKINDU Statechart Tools?

h2. Five minutes tutorial

h2. The statechart language

h3. Statechart

h3. Graphical elements

h4. Region

h4. State

h4. Transition

h4. Final state

h4. Entry

h4. Exit

h4. Choice

h4. Synchronization

h4. Composite state

h4. Orthogonal states

h4. Shallow history

h4. Deep history

h3. Types

h3. Statements

h4. Assignments

h4. Raising an event

h4. Calling an operation

h3. Expressions

h3. Scopes

h4. Namespace

h4. Interface scope

h4. Internal scope

h3. Declarations

h4. Variables

h4. Constants

h4. Events

h5. Incoming and outgoing events

h5. Events with variables

h4. Operations

h4. Local reactions

h3. Reaction triggers

h3. Built-in functions

h4. valueof(event)

h4. as

h4. active(state)

h2. Editing statecharts

h3. Creating and deleting statecharts

h3. Editor UI

h4. "SC Modeling" perspective

h4. Canvas

h4. Editor palette

h4. Outline view

h4. Problems view

h3. Editing states and other nodes

h3. Editing transitions

h3. Editing hierarchies

h3. Using subdiagrams

h3. Refactorings

h3. Using editing proposals

h3. Comparing statecharts

h2. Simulating statecharts

h3. Starting a simulation

h3. "SC Simulation" perspective

h3. Controlling a simulation

h3. Interacting with a simulation

h3. Configuring a simulation

h2. Generating state machine code

h3. Configuring a generator

h3. Running a generator

h3. General concepts of the state machine code

h2. C code generator

h2. C++ code generator

h2. Java code generator

h2. Custom code generator
