
p. 

==<div style="counter-reset: h1 7 h2 7">==

==<div class="pro-feature">==

h2(#codegen_statechart_images_generator). Statechart image generator

The statechart image generator renders a statechart and all its subdiagrams, if any, as image files. The generator supports several pixel-based and vector-based image formats, subject to the capabilities of the Java implementation you are using.


h3(#codegen_statechart_images_sample_generator_model). Sample statechart image generator model

The following example is a generator model to create SVG vector images of the _turbineControl_ statechart. The generated images are placed in the _images_ folder, which is located in the _powerPlant_ project.

==<div class="example">==

bc.. GeneratorModel for yakindu::images {

    statechart turbineControl {

        feature Outlet {
            targetProject = "powerPlant"
            targetFolder = "images"
        }

        feature Renderer {
            format = "svg"
        }
    }
}

p. 

==</div>==


h3(#codegen_statechart_images_generator_id). Statechart image generator ID

The statechart image generator's ID is *yakindu::images*. If you are using the YAKINDU generator model configuration wizard to create a generator model, select the _YAKINDU Image Generator_ to place the generator ID into the _.sgen_ file.


h3(#codegen_statechart_images_generator_features). Statechart image generator features

h4(#codegen_statechart_images_outlet_feature). Outlet feature

The mandatory *Outlet* feature specifies the project and folder the statechart images will be written to. See section "&quot;Outlet feature&quot;":../user-guide/code_generation_intro.html#codegen_outlet_feature for details.

bq. *Please note:* The image generator supports the *Outlet* feature's _targetProject_ and _targetFolder_ parameters only.


==<!-- Start sgen_feature_renderer -->==

h4(#codegen_statechart_images_renderer_feature). Renderer feature

The mandatory *Renderer* feature controls the rendering of the images.

* _format_ (String, required): Format of the generated images. YAKINDU Statechart Tools supports the following formats:<br/><table><tbody><tr><th>Image format</th><th>Description</th></tr><tr><td>BMP, PNG</td><td>Lossless pixel image formats</td></tr><tr><td>JPG, JPEG</td><td>Lossy pixel image format</td></tr><tr><td>SVG</td><td>Scalable Vector Graphics</td></tr><tr><td>PDF</td><td>Portable Document Format</td></tr></tbody></table>

==<!-- End sgen_feature_renderer -->==

==</div>==

==</div>==